Hey guys and we are back in this section.
Simon and I are going to break down in each lecture a different business model what they look like what
metrics they run off of and how we reflect that in our Excel models.
Even if your business only fits into one of these categories I do suggest you still follow along because
it's really useful information and it does help you think critically about what goes into each business.
It kind of goes without saying that you should study business models in general to get better at them
versus just studying your business model a lot anyway in this lecture we're going to talk about the
free to the user but with display and model can you think of any off the top of your head what I'm talking
about.
How about Facebook How about Twitter.
Pretty much anything that's free you've ever saw an ad on any newspaper ever.
Here's a fun fact.
Think about all the sites you use today.
How many of those did you actually pay for.
I'm going to guess that there are quite a few that let you spell long call overhead without ever asking
for your credit card number.
Well chances are these are the Web sites that we're talking about in this lecture.
I say chances are because if these sites like you know social networks forums blogs free mobile apps
whatever they don't charge you anything then chances are they make their money through ads or the other
option that no one wants to talk about selling your data.
Yes this is true and if you've ever applied to a company called fast web ads for scholarships the United
States will talk about this later.
In the end the case studies section that Web site is a search engine for college scholarships.
Ask a lot of information about you so they can match you.
But actually they just sell your information to loan companies all because they want to help kids and
that's why you keep getting mysterious mail from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Anyway I digress.
We're back to ads.
Yes ads.
You've seen them.
They pay for things like Facebook Twitter Pinterest your favorite blog pretty much any digital media
like The New York Times Washington Post or CNN.
Go out on a limb here and kind of assuming that CNN gives at least 80 percent of that ad revenue to
whoever makes those ridiculous and over-the-top holograms that are on the screen all the time.
But anyway they're a great example.
Every time you go to their site there's a chance you might see an ad even if you didn't see one.
You might have shown one that you just didn't notice.
That's actually something we usually call native advertising which is a topic for a totally different
lecture.
So how does an ad based website or mobile application make itself run underneath the hood.
Well it's actually pretty simple.
You have a web or mobile property and your currency is going to be foot traffic.
Now you can pick and choose where and what types of ads to display but how you get paid will really
all come down to three different terms.
We have a cost per click.
It's also abbreviated a CPC cost per action which is abreviated a CPA and I'm going to reverse this
one on the last one the last one is abbreviated C.P am.
Can you guess what the M stands for.
Seriously there are marketers who've been running ads for 10 years and I don't even know if the and
CPM stands for.
It's not millions.
It's not man it is me me it.
I don't know Imai l l e.
Yes it's the French word for thousand minutes.
Yeah.
You know.
Moving on when someone loads your page on your app and they see an ad they just see it.
That is what we call an impression every time they see that.
And that is called an impression regardless of whether or not they've seen that particular before a
CPM therefore is the amount of money an advertiser pays for every.
Thousand impressions.
If a CPM of say is one dollar and you refresh a page a thousand times Congratulations you owe them a
dollar.
Now if the user decides to click on that ad that's called.
Can you guess it.
It's called a click.
Pretty simple.
The advertiser then pays you for the click.
The last one though is a little tricky and not used all the time where it's really actually not that
common but it's worth knowing.
Cost per action.
Let's say I clicked that out and then I went to their page and I either bought something or signed up
for their email list.
That's called into action.
And usually the advertiser defines what constitutes an action.
So every time someone clicks and and and then goes and does whatever it is that they wanted them to
do.
This is of course tracked on the advertisers site of course you the publisher would get paid.
Now this is totally extracurricular But why do we have three and why do we use all three.
And you know the answer to this.
Well the reason why we have all three is because of this Goldilocks kind of dynamic.
But clean them if an advertiser pays money for a thousand impressions how do they know those impressions
will translate into what they want.
Just like sales or clicks.
Now on the other side of the spectrum as a site owner why would I pay per action if I have no idea after
the click how attractive that site is.
And that leaves us with the one that's kind of in the middle.
The most popular by far is the cost per click what kind of solves both of these problems.
I as an advertiser I'm only on the hook for how effective you are getting people to click it and you
are only on the hook for getting people to click it.
Not how effective I am at getting them to buy something or sign up.
You can't just show ads to show them and you can't just pay someone every time you make a sale from
their traffic.
You've got to share the risk load.
Of course if you know the advertisers really well that's usually when you see people go with a CPA.
And if you think your ad is absolutely hilarious and you'll get tons of click anywhere then you might
actually go with the CPM because you can negotiate a better a better rate.
Anyway generally advertisers are going to pay you one or the other and any given site though you might
have ads running on say two different ad systems.
Ninety five percent of the cases you'll have see PCs and C-p EMS.
OK now there are two ingredients left and we're over the hump on this business model from a conceptual
standpoint.
Now the first of this last kind of straggler group is another lovely acronym we call C-T are which is
odd because it looks like it's three words but it's really I think two but it means click through rate
maybe click through.
Two words I've always seen it as one word.
I don't.
The squiggly line when I put it as one word so I don't know what that stands for is the percentage of
people that see an ad and then click on it.
That percentage can fluctuate violently and it entirely just depends on the group of people that see
it and how effective the ad is as well as the placement of the ad.
Now what is the last major ingredient in an ad based business model.
Well it is the number of people that you bring to your site.
The number that brings us all home.
Total visitors.
All right you got it.
Those are the five things we generally care about CPM cost per media CPC cost per click CPA cost per
action C-T are click through rate and then the last one the one that matters more than all the other
ones is just total visitors.
Your model will be built around these five concepts so make sure you understand them.
Okay lets look at what this looks like in actual practice and see how it gets reflected in our model.
All right see you later.
Hey now before we actually go and build the revenue model.
Its a good idea to do some sanity checks right.
So for something like this you may do a sanity check around some sort of a target revenue.
How much can you reasonably expect for a certain amount of traffic to say or say you have a site thats
in a certain vertical and you want to see based on you know industry known and she CPM and CBC's what
the expected revenue could be for your site given a certain amount of visitors.
So here we can start from the top down in the yellow cells again are going to be inputs into your simple
model here.
And then the grey cells here are going to be the formulas.
Okay.
So lets say you think you can get to 2 and a half million visitors unique visitors per per month.
And you know that in your Vergel you got your hands on some industry data for that particular vertical
and you know that the click rates range from a quarter percent to close just under 2 percent.
You know to be conservative you may do half a percent.
So based on that traffic the number of visitors your total impressions are CPM which is measured in
the thousands is going to equal to the visitors divided by 1000 right now and then the number of click
through is going to be the visitors times the click through rate right here.
Okay.
So you have these numbers now and again maybe industry data you're going to know that the range for
the CPM is between 1 and $2 or so to be conservative.
Maybe you put it on the lower in dollar 2.5.
And then for the CPC maybe put it at $2.
So then the revenue that you can expect from both of these is going to be the rate times the corresponding
figures right.
So for impressions is going to be the impressions times the CPA.
And then for the click through is going to be the number of click through those times the cost that
you're able to charge.
So then your revenue your total revenue is going to be the sum of those two.
So if you had you know this kind of expectation in terms of traffic but you're you're you were expecting
quarter million in monthly revenue than from just a quick exercise like this.
You would see that you're kind of out of the ballpark right.
You know you could play with these assumptions to see how that would affect you right.
So if you're you're on the low end of click through rates then you're looking at something like that.
But if you're on the higher end then you might get to six figures according to this formula.
Right.
So this is a pretty quick way to do a sanity check.
Right now once you have something like this.
Another useful method to kind of visualize two variables and say like the results is to do something
called a table.
OK.
So let's take a look right now here what I have structured is jus the different click through rates
from the range of points you 5 percent all the way to one point ninety five percent.
Okay.
And here is some assumptions about monthly visitors that we can put whatever values we want.
I just want to provide a pretty wide range here for us to see then what you can do is in this corner
here where these values are you want it to equal to the value that you want to look at.
That's of interest.
Right so in our case it's going to be the monthly revenue.
Okay.
Now the reason nothing shows up here is I make the font white instead of having something there it just
looks better.
You'll understand what I mean when I show you this.
So I'm going to just make the font white or doesn't show up there.
So then what happens is I have two variables that are related to generating this monthly revenue figure.
Right now I want to see how the monthly revenue figure changes depending on all of these combinations
of quick rate percentages versus monthly visitors.
So in each box it gives me the monthly revenue for that given set of click rates and monthly visitors.
So we do that is you select this whole box including the corner here.
And then what you do is you go to data you go to a what if now different versions of Excel might have
slightly different ways of looking at it.
So you're going to have to find out where that data table is located for your version of Excel.
I'm using 2011 right now which is quite popular but if you have a newer version this will be even easier.
So you click on data table and what's going to happen is is going to give you this little dialogue.
And it says row input cell and column input so.
So for us the row input cell right here these rows are the monthly visitors right.
So we're going to set it equals to the visitors here and then the column in Purcell's the click through
rates are we going to set it to the click through rate.
OK.
So you see that now that we have those if I click OK is going to generate this table for us.
Now it's colored because I had set a conditional formatting here to just to for us to see it visually
better otherwise it would just be a table with plain white.
OK.
But what you can see then is instead of having to plug all these values in separately here all these
different values to see what the monthly revenue would be.
You could quickly visualize what that would look like for all of these combinations.
Right so if you had a 2 percent click through it and you get 50 million visitors then with these assumptions
for that for the average you know CPM and the CPC that you're charging this is the monthly revenue that
you can expect or ad revenue you can expect.
Right.
So here are all the combinations given these assumptions.
It's good to put it here.
The assumptions that you're also assuming so you know what you're looking at you're looking at these
combinations under these assumptions here we can do the same thing with different variables.
Right.
So we had another variable.
What if we what if we change what we're trying to do but we're we want to keep the visitors in the click
through rate the same.
But we want to see what would happen with different combinations of CPC and CPM.
So you could do the same right.
So this here the cell in the corner is equal to the revenue.
And then what I do now I made a bigger bigger box here and again you can select this whole thing and
I'm going to go back to data what if scenario data table now has this dialogue again.
Right.
So then we get to go back to the formula.
So our top one is CPM right.
So then sort of roll input is going to be the CPM one a column on a CPC.
And then we go back to the table and push OK.
It's going to generate another table for us.
OK.
So here then we can see hey with this traffic assumption you know two and a half million visitors at
a point five percent click through rate these combinations.
Any of these combinations of CPC or CPM that you're going to charge that's the monthly expected revenue
that you can expect.
So you can see with you know simple model and using the data table you can quickly kind of get yourself
a range to see where you are in the ballpark and quickly test what you're looking at.
All right.
Next let's actually build the model here.
OK so what we're looking at here is a set up with we're just looking at 12 months.
Okay.
12 months of time.
And then here are the visitors.
Let's say we're assuming that it's going to take us 12 months to get to our target.
What you put in the front.
Okay.
Which was two and a half million users.
So then every month before that we're kind of building up the the visitors to this site that you have
toward building up and then we're assuming some click through rate.
So if we want to assume the same quick through rate then we could just eat boules to what we have here
assumed that point five percent.
Okay then for us to calculate the total impressions for each of the months what we have is we take the
visitors for that month and we're assuming that they're only visiting once right now okay these unique
visitors we're not assuming they're visiting multiple times now or assuming they're only visiting once
okay per visitor.
So we have that divided by 1000.
Right so each of them is only visiting one time so.
So we have these CMs.
So one way to make it easier is if you're only using this many columns is to get rid of all the other
columns.
You select them you right click and then you hide them.
And that way you can kind of skip around from the front to the back by using either command arrow if
you're on a Mac or control Errol's to move back and forth.
So here we have this formula we can copy and paste this for the rest of the months and we will have
the calculations so we see that each one is the visitors divided by 1000 right for the CPM and click
through rate is going to be the number of visitors.
And we're also assuming that they're only visiting each site the site once a month so each visitors
want impression as well.
Then we have the visitors times the click through rate.
So you've got to look at what you're doing if it makes sense or not.
Any time you're doing it don't just keep doing it without thinking about whether it looks correct or
not.
OK so we have this formula.
We have the click through rate times the visitors right.
If I just copy this formula and move it across we're going to have an error here.
OK I can show you just in the second month.
See that it's going to have a 0.
Now what's going on here.
So here you see it's referring to this empty cell is because when we copy the formula the formula is
moving with it.
So one way in Excel to make sure that when we're copying the formula.
If we want this reference to this cell to be fixed it's called an absolute reference and it doesn't
move.
Then we want to put something like the dollar signs in front of the column and the row.
Not a hash tag but the dollar signs like that.
OK so we have the dollar signs in front of the column D and row 7 we're going to fix it and then push
enter.
Now when I copy this formula to here you can hover the lower right corner when it changes the crosshairs
and pull it over copy.
So we look at this formula and now we see that it's referencing it correctly.
OK.
Now we can pretty much just copy and paste the formula to the rest of the cells.
So then we are also going to need our assumptions for your average CPI CPM and your CPC that you're
charging right.
So we take the same assumptions from the front which is make it equal to those and the other one we
can make it equal to the CPC one right here.
OK.
So we have these two assumptions that now we can calculate the revenue.
So the CPM revenue is going to equal to the impressions or the thousand impressions that you have times
your average CPM price right but we want to make it again in absolute reference so we're going to add
those dollar signs right there.
Okay.
And now we're going to do the same with the CPC except we're going to have to click through those times
the CPC.
Okay.
And then again you're going to add the dollar signs for that reference.
So once you have that well we can do is we can copy these two cells and we select the rest that's in
that category.
And then we're going to paste it.
And so we have these calculations and it should be growing right with the visitors growing over time
we'll see that hey we're going to be growing the revenue for both.
And then so then the monthly revenue which is going to be the sum of these two.
Right.
Can you just add them up like this or you can use a function in Excel some and just select the both
of those cells that you want some in.
I recommend using the suffix.
A lot of times you're going to have more than two things you're trying to some would if you have a lot
you don't want to be selecting each of those cells individually.
Right so if you get some you get just select the whole selection that range and then it would do it
for you.
And we can copy in pace now some of you might have noticed there was a little message in this corner
that's no longer there.
The reason I put something there is I want to check to see if I did it right in the 12th month with
this these visitors and if these assumptions are exactly the same as the front monthly revenue should
equal to what's in the front.
Right.
So here it says twenty thousand one hundred twenty five.
And here it says the same.
It's right now I don't want to be able to I don't want to have to look back and forth between those
things so what I can do is I can create a little check for myself the way I do that is do an if statement
and if statement is something that Excel provides that allows you to check a condition if it's true
then do this.
And if not do something else.
So what I'm going to check for the first part of the logical test is if this is equal to that thing
in the front then I can put a.
OK.
And if not I can put error.
Ok so now that I close it it's going to have this a ok if I change something from here and it's not
using the assumptions from the back.
What we're going to see is it's going to show an error here right.
So let's let's just change this for now and we're going to make it $3.
You see that now it shows an error here.
So that's a good way to do error checking when you build models.
Easy way to do that.
So I'm going to push this back.
And so there you go.
In just a few short minutes you're able to build a simple revenue model to represent what it might look
like for an ad driven destination.